for joining us now live live is Dr gasan
Abu he's a Plastics and reconstructive
surgeon at Al Ali Hospital in Gaza
thanks very much for taking the time to
speak to us uh if you can first of all
tell us the situation there at Al Ali
hospital so ever since the collapse of
shifa hospital we have become a
functioning Hospital in Gaza City uh if
you recall this is the hospital that was
targeted initially by the Israelis at
the beginning of the war and so
parts of the hospital were damaged and
we uh um when we after the collapse of
shifa we turned it uh at least the for
court and the grounds of the hospital
into a field hospital we now have over
500 wounded there's only three surgeons
here and two operating rooms with two
anst we've today been joined by an
obstetrician who's trying to also
provide the only uh obstetric Serv
service in Gaza uh um and he's been able
to perform some of the cesarian
section um and uh but we are short on
supplies we've been having to perform
excruciatingly painful procedures on
wounds of the patients to stop them
becoming infected with no analgesia or
anesthetic because we have such limited
supplies and we're keeping them for the
most life-saving
surgery most of the Wounded are being
bandaged and and just admitted into the
for court of the hospital uh um and and
those who need life saving surgery go
into the operating rooms but we're
extremely limited and now we're the only
Hospital in the whole of the Gaza
City it sounds like an absolutely
horrific horrendous situation trying to
do operations without anesthesia how as
a medical staff do you cope with that
it's awful I mean you when you
especially do it with with children and
and you you feel the the the um the pain
that is being
inflicted but at the same time these
wounds have to be cleaned otherwise
these they become septic and they become
life-threatening on the patient and so
you can wait one day you can wait a
couple of days but at the end of the day
with the fames
you end up having to do these things
because you have to just buy time 90% of
what I do now is buying time for these
patients until something happens some
some miracle some breakthrough some
ceasefire or humanitarian Corridor or
anything to these patients to get the
medical help that they need the W says
hospitals across Gaza City have closed
they've stopped operations because they
have run out of fuel what is the fuel
situation like at alali
hospital so we limit all of the Electric
City Supply to the operating rooms to
try to preserve our fuel supply um and
uh that kind of is keeping us going the
minute we stop our operating we switch
off the the generator uh there are
remnants of uh um solar cells that are
that weren't damaged in the initials uh
uh missile attack but but we we I mean
eventually it'll run out unless
something happens I I'm trying to I'm
I'm trying to understand what the world
is waiting for 7 to 800,000 Palestinians
in the northern half of Gaza are without
Health Care tens of thousands of wounded
are without health care I'm trying to
figure out what what at what point does
the world believe that it's enough and
that it is no longer acceptable in this
day and age for this to be done to
people and especially as even the
bombing continues and new patients uh
desperately need help and Care are you
seeing a greater influx of people
needing your help now that the other
hospitals have had to shut
down absolutely we've had over 500
patients come in in the last three day M
um and so it's just been unrelenting
every every half an hour there's a new
air rate and then there's a new influx
of
wounded and how easy or possible not
easy how possible is it to evacuate any
of your
patients it's not possible at all
there's I mean we can and machine gun
fire going around the hospital all of
the time and there are still raids the
streets are not safe uh um and and we
understand from the ambulance uh uh uh
Crews that that deliver the patients
that they get fired on
regularly we're just looking we were
just looking there at some pictures from
October when we had the Israeli air
strike on the Al Ali hospital that was
one of the first times that we saw these
medical facilities being targeted by the
Israel
now of course it is common place with
the Israelis saying that hospitals like
alifa Al coulds they are hideouts for
Hamas that Hamas is operating in and
under the hospitals because of tunnels
and and that is where their operation
commands are coming from is Al Ali
Hospital similarly being targeted by
Israeli strikes now and by tanks on the
ground at the moment we have since the
missile attack we've not been targeted
but we're really in the middle of a lot
of the military activity which kind of
isolates us from from our patients but I
mean this whole discourse about the
hospitals the Israelis now surround have
been surrounding shifa hospital for four
days and have not come up with it and
have actually even changed the whole
narrative about the shifa being this
great command and Control Center and and
nothing has happened I mean this this
was just a narrative to
to justify the targeting and the
systematic destruction of the health
system in order to further deepen the
humanitarian catastrophe so that the
wounded if they survive the first attack
die from their wounds and that's what's
happening just one more question uh Dr
gasan abua the the medical staff working
in these hospitals I want to understand
how you're managing to cope are you
sleeping in the hospitals how much sleep
are you getting are you able to get food
are you able to get water what is the
situation like for
you so I we literally sleep in the
operating rooms where we work during the
day we have one of the operating rooms
that we put our mattresses in and we
sleep there uh uh food is being brought
To Us by the ambulance
services um we are uh uh um I mean you
keep going because of the number of the
sheer number of patients and wounded and
the fact that you cannot turn your back
on them and and say I've had enough or I
cannot cope anymore and that's what
keeps you going that just sheer momentum
of of of moving forward and just hoping
and praying that something will
change Dr gasan Abu CA joining us there
from Al Ali Hospital in Gaza City thank
you very much for taking the time to
explain the horrific situation there in
the hospitals